---
layout: post
title: "Tables"
date: 2012-06-05 15:32
comments: true
categories: [HTML and CSS Design Patterns]
---

<div><h2>Tables</h2>

<ul>
<li><strong>Table shows</strong> how to create and style the fundamental structure of a table.</li>
<li><strong>Row and Column Groups</strong> shows how to create and style row headers, row
footers, row groups, column groups, and columns.</li>
<li><strong>Table Selectors</strong> shows how to select cells from columns, rows, and row groups.</li>
<li><strong>Separated Borders</strong> shows how to separate table borders from cell borders.</li>
<li><strong>Collapsed Borders</strong> shows how to combine table and cell borders.</li>
<li><strong>Styled Collapsed Borders</strong> shows how to style collapsed borders.</li>
<li><strong>Hidden and Removed Cells</strong> shows how to hide or remove cells.</li>
<li><strong>Removed and Hidden Rows and Columns</strong> shows how to remove or hide rows,
row groups, and columns of cells.</li>
<li><strong>Vertical-Aligned Data</strong> shows how to vertically align data to the top, middle,
bottom, or baseline of a cell.</li>
<li><strong>Striped Tables</strong> shows how to assign alternating backgrounds to rows.</li>
<li><strong>Accessible Tables</strong> shows how to create a table that is friendly to nonsighted users.</li>
<li><strong>Tabled, Rowed, and Celled</strong> shows how to turn any element into a table, row, or
cell.</li>
<li><p><strong>Table Layout</strong> shows how to create the four types of tables: shrinkwrapped, sized,
stretched, and fixed.</p>

<h2>Table Column Layout</h2></li>
<li><p><strong>Column Width</strong> shows how a browser calculates the column width when cells in
the same column in different rows have different widths, different types of widths,
different minimum content widths, and different maximum content widths. This
pattern applies to shrinkwrapped, sized, and stretched tables.</p></li>
<li><strong>Shrinkwrapped Columns</strong> shows how to shrinkwrap columns to fit the width of
their content. This pattern applies to shrinkwrapped tables.</li>
<li><strong>Sized Columns</strong> shows how to assign fixed widths to columns while keeping the
table’s width within a minimum or maximum value. This pattern applies to
shrinkwrapped or fixed tables.</li>
<li><strong>Content-Proportioned Columns</strong> shows how to automatically distribute a table’s
width among its columns proportionally to the width of the content in each
column. Columns with wider content are assigned to a wider width than columns
with narrower content. This pattern applies to sized and stretched tables. It also
applies to shrinkwrapped tables when their content stretches them to the width of
their containers.</li>
<li><strong>Size-Proportioned Columns</strong> shows how to automatically distribute a table’s
width among its columns proportionally to the width assigned to each column. In
this design pattern, a browser does not necessarily render a column at its assigned
width. Instead, it renders a column proportionally to the widths assigned to other
columns. This pattern applies to sized, stretched, and fixed tables. It also appliesto shrinkwrapped tables when assigned cell widths stretch them to the width of
their containers.</li>
<li><strong>Percentage-Proportioned Columns</strong> shows how to distribute a table’s width
among its columns proportionally to the percentage assigned to the width of each
column. In this design pattern, a browser does not necessarily render a column at
its assigned percentage of the table’s width. Instead, it renders a column
proportionally to the percentages assigned to other columns. This pattern applies
to sized, stretched, and fixed tables.</li>
<li><strong>Inverse-Proportioned Columns</strong> shows how to size columns in proportion to
their content. For example, a cell can be sized to be double the width of its
content. This pattern applies to shrinkwrapped tables.</li>
<li><strong>Equal Content-Sized Columns</strong> shows how to automatically shrink a table to its
smallest possible width while sizing all columns equally. In other words, it sets all
columns to the same width while using the smallest possible width that will
display each cell’s content. It creates compact tables with uniform columns. It
works best with tables containing numbers and short text. This pattern applies to
shrinkwrapped tables.</li>
<li><strong>Equal-Sized Columns</strong> shows how to automatically divide a table’s width into
equal proportions for each cell. This pattern applies to sized, stretched, and fixed
tables.</li>
<li><strong>Undersized Columns</strong> shows how to create columns that are narrower than their content. This pattern applies to fixed tables.</li>
<li><strong>Flex Columns</strong> shows how to create dynamically sized columns alongside fixedwidth or percentage-width  columns. These columns fill in the space not taken by sized or percentage cells. As a table’s container grows or shrinks, so do flex columns. This pattern is most useful when applied to stretched and fixed tables,
but also applies to sized tables.</li>
<li><strong>Mixed Column Layouts</strong> shows how to combine fixed-width, percentage-width,and auto-width columns to create additional layouts. It shows how browsers assign different priorities to fixed-width, percentage-width, and auto-width columns depending on whether a table is shrinkwrapped, sized, stretched, or fixed.</li>
</ul></div>