---
layout: post
title: "Blocks"
date: 2012-06-05 15:31
comments: true
categories: [HTML and CSS Design Patterns]
---

<div><h2>Blocks</h2>

<ul>
<li><strong>Structural Meaning</strong> shows how blocks create hierarchical and sequential
structure.</li>
<li><strong>Visual Structure</strong> shows how to style blocks to bring out the document structure.</li>
<li><strong>Section</strong> shows how to organize your document into sections for easy styling and
for better structural meaning for search engines and document processors.</li>
<li><strong>Lists</strong> shows many ways to create lists and list markers.</li>
<li><strong>Background Bulleted</strong> shows how to add bullets to a list using background images.</li>
<li><strong>Inlined</strong> shows how to render a block element as if it were an inline element. This
allows blocks to be rendered from left to right and to wrap across lines.</li>
<li><strong>Collapsed</strong> Margins shows how to collapse and uncollapse vertical margins
between block elements.</li>
<li><strong>Run-In</strong> shows how to run a block into the following sibling block as if it were an
inline element within the following block. Run-in headings save space and are
very attractive.</li>
<li><strong>Horizontal</strong> Rule shows how to use and style a horizontal rule in spite of the
problems caused by Internet Explorer 7, which refuses to remove its built-in styles
from &lt; hr /&gt;.</li>
<li><strong>Block Spacer</strong> shows how to insert a precise amount of vertical space between
selective blocks without having to adjust margins individually.</li>
<li><strong>Block Space</strong> Remover shows how to remove a precise amount of vertical space
between selective blocks without having to adjust margins individually.</li>
<li><strong>Left Marginal</strong> shows how to extract headings, notes, alerts, and images from the
normal flow and move them into a wide left margin.</li>
<li><strong>Right Marginal</strong> works like Left Marginal except items are moved to the right.</li>
</ul></div>