---
layout: post
title: "Layouts"
date: 2012-06-05 15:32
comments: true
categories: [HTML and CSS Design Patterns]
---

<div><ul>
<li><strong>Fluid Layout </strong> Overview explores problems and solutions in creating fluid layouts.</li>
<li><strong>Outside-in Box</strong> shows how to size the outer width of a box instead of the inner
width.</li>
<li><strong>Floating Section </strong> shows how to render sections in columns using a fluid layout.</li>
<li><strong>Float Divider</strong> shows how to separate and integrate floats and content predictably.</li>
<li><strong>Fluid Layout </strong> shows how to create layouts that automatically adapt to any display.</li>
<li><strong>Opposing Floats</strong> shows how to move content to opposite sides of its container.</li>
<li><strong>Event Styling </strong> shows how to assign events to elements without putting code in
your document. It shows how events can modify classes to change how elements
are styled.</li>
<li><strong>Rollup </strong> shows how to collapse and open sections with a mouse click.</li>
<li><strong>Tab Menu </strong> shows how to create a tabbed interface that loads new pages when
clicked.</li>
<li><strong>Tabs </strong> shows how to create a tabbed interface that dynamically switches content in
and out of the display when the user clicks a tab—without loading a new page.</li>
<li><strong>Flyout Menu </strong> shows how to create a menu that opens when clicked or hovered
over.</li>
<li><strong>Button </strong> shows how to create buttons and process their events using JavaScript.</li>
<li><strong>Layout Links </strong> shows how to use links as part of the layout, such as breadcrumbs.</li>
<li><strong>Multi-column </strong> shows how to distribute content over multiple columns.</li>
</ul></div>